# 2024 ORCA AI in Dental Research

## Basic AI Glossary

<table><thead><tr><th width="198">AI Term</th><th>Definition</th><th>Example</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Artificial Intelligence (AI)</td><td>A computer system that can imitate human intelligence, such as understanding speech, making decisions, translating languages, and learning from experiences.</td><td>AI in dentistry can analyze radiographs to detect caries</td></tr><tr><td>Machine Learning</td><td>A field under AI, where a computer system learns to identify patterns and make predictions based on them. Uses tabular or structured datam such as databases</td><td>Machine learning is used in dentistry to analyze historical patient data and predict the probability of oral diseases based on the data available.</td></tr><tr><td>Deep Learning</td><td>Similar to machine learning, but uses non structured data, such as images, audio or text</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Large Language Models (LLMs)</td><td>LLMs use deep learning techniques to process language and mimic human communication.</td><td>These systems can be utilized in dentistry to create conversational virtual dental assistants, guiding patients with scheduling appointments, offering reminders, or answering common oral care questions. ChatGPT is a LLM</td></tr><tr><td>Generative AI</td><td>Generative AI learns patterns and structures and then generates something that’s similar but new. It can make things like images, text, etc.</td><td>By applying generative AI, it is possible to create clinical scenarios, images of teeth or any other clinical material based on  patients' dental records.</td></tr><tr><td>Hallucinations</td><td>Errors in AI generated outputs, producing results that don't align with reality.</td><td>GenAI can invent references or situations. An LLMs always responds with confidence, and sometimes gets it right.</td></tr><tr><td>Responsible AI</td><td>Principles and practices directing the design of AI systems to be safe and fair.</td><td>Responsible AI in dentistry implies the ethical use of AI, ensuring that it does not compromise patient privacy, and its recommendations are fair and non-discriminatory. For instance, an AI model trained on data from a specific type of patients can give innacturate or biased outputs in another kind of patient (race, SES, sex, age, etc).</td></tr><tr><td>Multimodal Models</td><td>A model that can work with different types, or modes, of data simultaneously.</td><td>In dentistry, multimodal models can combine visual data from radiographs and textual data from patient records to deliver predictions about a patient's oral health condition.</td></tr><tr><td>Prompts</td><td>An instruction entered into a system that tells the AI what task to perform.</td><td>Prompts are used to guide an AI system to analyze a radiograph and identify areas of concern. For example, a dentist could give a prompt like "identify caries".</td></tr><tr><td>Copilots</td><td>A personal assistant that works alongside in various digital applications.</td><td>A dental research copilot could assist researchers by searching literature, summarizing reports, and even drafting parts of research papers.</td></tr><tr><td>Plugins</td><td>Small software add-ons that enhance the functionality of a larger application.</td><td>Plugins can be developed for dental software to interface with AI models, enabling features like automated image analysis or patient data prediction.</td></tr></tbody></table>
